welcome to the program it's 19 GMT
that's 10 p.m. in Gaza at least 500
people have been killed in an Israeli
air strike in The besieged
Enclave that's according to the
Palestinian Health Ministry hundreds of
families were Sheltering in and around
the Baptist Hospital Palestinian
Authority president Mahmud abas called
the attack a massacre and genocide
in a statement he went on and said that
he will not be meeting with the US
President Joe Biden when he visits the
region the Palestinian Liberation
Organization has released a statement in
response to the attack it says we call
on the International Community to
intervene immediately to stop this
massacre let's bring in our
correspondent now T Abu AUM who joins us
live from KH Unis in southern Gaza T any
further information about what un folded
at the Baptist hospital this
evening well firstly I'd like to start
with the latest update inside the Gaza
Strip uh an official Source in Hamas
movement had told us that Hamas is ready
to release uh civilian and foreign
captives if the Israeli occupation
forces stop its aggression on the
Palestinian people this is what the
latest updates that we have got from the
Gaza Strip according to official sources
that had told us during the last hour in
terms of what was happening in al-
madani and in Arab a hospital according
to the Palestinian Ministry of Health
inside the Gaza Strip the death to still
really spiking according to the latest
updates that we had uh reached from the
Palestinian Ministry of Health that the
number of people vict of the victims uh
killed by the Israeli ongoing uh air
strikes has reached around approximately
from 200 up to 500 uh Palestinians who
were killed uh due to the Israeli strike
on that hospital uh this Hospital was
densely populated with a lot of people
who were really displaced from the
houses after receiving different
warnings from the Israeli occupation to
to evacuate the houses uh this uh
densely populated Hospital also was a
shelter for a lot of people who really
uh run away from the Israeli ongoing
compartment inside the Gaza Strip till
this current moment Medical Teams are
trying to identify the number of victims
and even are providing a treatment for
thousands of Palestinians who are being
victim and the new victims that had who
have been injured and the new injuries
that have turned up to the hospital it's
also important to mention that the
director of a shifat hospital said that
we are conducting and carrying out
operations on the on on the ground it
seems that even medical uh facilities
are not yet enough uh to keep providing
medical treatment for the great number
of people wounded in this air strike TK
how does the intensification of this
evening's bombardment compared to the
previous 11
days
well this is the uh bloodiest attack
that had been carried out by the Israeli
occupation forces on the Gaza trp since
the early outbreak of this round of
fighting between Palestinian Fighters
and the Israeli occupation forces uh you
are talking about a huge number of
victims in comparison with the previous
kind of strikes and the bombardment that
took place uh the the the uh the the
minimum uh range of attacks that could
least could at least cause severe
destruction to civil and uh to civil uh
and even private uh properities also uh
claiming the life of thousand of of
dozens of Palestinians but this attack
claimed the life of hundred of
Palestinians in only one strike this is
considered to be the most aggressive
attack since the early beginning of this
fighting tck we know that the situation
with water has been dire it's been cut
off there has been shortages of fuel and
food speaking to Residents around you
what are they saying about the
conditions that they're living
in well uh people inside the Gaza Strip
are really experiencing hard conditions
specifically especially with the ongoing
Israel clo of borders and the prevention
of Entry of any essential items to the
Gaza Strip uh also the Israeli
authorities uh have rejected the entry
of any fuel supplies to The besieged
Enclave people inside the Gaza Strip are
trying to survive based on minimum
abilities and me even based on minimum
uh let's say water sources and fuel they
are consuming the already exist fuel
before the the eruption of the round of
fighting even hospitals inside the Gaza
Strip are really suffering from the
great shortage or fuel that even
ambulances won't be able later in the
coming hours to be able to evacuate
victims due to that great shortage T if
civilians there can't seek help help or
shelter in hospitals and they can't seek
shelter at un schools where can they
go well there is no any place inside the
Gaza Strip Palestinians really are
frustrated every single corner of the
Gaza Strip had been bombarded by the
Israeli occupation forces schools
hospitals uh public buildings private
sectors even private companies were
targeted so it seems that the Gaza Strip
is witnessing uh very horrific uh
attacks that could be really uh that
really BR catastrophic consequences on
every life aspects inside the Gaza Strip
so people really have no safe place to
go to they just only depend on uh
residing in the surrounding areas of
hospitals meanwhile hospitals become a
new Target for the Israeli strikes and
you're outside another hospital that's
close by what impact is that having this
most recent bombardment having on on
health workers where you are and in
terms of it being already
overwhelmed well uh the this hospital
and the majority of gaza's hospitals
have been full uh fully crowded with
people who really were displaced from
their houses uh those displaced people
did not find initial building just
accept hospitals in order to resign
around and hope to be protected from the
Israeli bombardment meanwhile uh the the
the Intensive existence of those
citizens around the hospitals really
sometimes affect negatively on the
impact and the performance of the uh of
the medical teams in order to uh to
carry out the work uh perfectly even
Medical Teams are are really finding
great difficulty in in performing their
jobs due to the great lack of medical
supplies so the entire Gaza Strip had
been turned to a very uh catastrophic
city which is really full of Sorrow
pains and even uh the the great shortage
of basic necessities well the situation
unfolds around you and people are no
doubt just mainly trying to survive
we're seeing images of stretcher after
stretcher injured person after injured
person is there any sense of what's
going on outside of Gaza on the
Diplomatic
front well uh generally uh pal Ians here
inside of the Gaza Strip become uh
profoundly uh believ that they are
really unsafe from now on specifically
with the uh great destruction that have
been caused in al- madani and Arab
Hospital uh this building has been uh
targeted by the Israel air strikes
people were sleeping on the ground in
the surrounding areas sometimes on the
floor of the hospital so it seems that
this densely populated building had been
mercilessly targeted without taking care
of the existance of hundreds of
Palestinians who really evacuated the
houses even Palestinians here inside the
Gaza Strip after this attack delivered
different messages to the International
Community that they need an urgent
intervention to gaza's STP in order to
help them to be able to be protected
from the Israeli strikes and even to
provide them with humanitarian AIDS T we
appreciate that update in trying
conditions TK Abu AUM in southern Gaza
for us let's stay in Gaza and speak to a
resident there who's joining us on the
phone reat aler who's also the editor of
Gaza rights back reat we appreciate you
speaking to us given the intensity of
the situation around you can you
describe what's happened where you are
this
evening uh what's happening is a a total
blood paath it's a it's a massacre
unprecedented in in terms of uh where uh
Israel struck in terms of the number of
people with speak about uh 5,000 people
congregating in a small place in a
hospital that also has a church in Al uh
Baptist Hospital killing uh around 500
and injuring injuring injuring more uh I
want to start with something also
equally important soon after the the
strike several Israeli uh media
influencers in social media uh
celebrated the attack quickly celebrated
the attack and I'm quoting here somebody
is saying that Israeli Air Force struck
a Hamas terrorist bace inside a hospital
in Gaza multiple number of terrorists
are are and I'm saying this because
Israel will always quickly rush to deny
such hideous and heinous massacr against
against Palestinian what Israel is doing
is extermination this is genocide that
has to be sted at price and at as
possible I've spoken to you a couple of
times now rat over the past few days and
this is by far the most emotional I've
heard you on the
phone where are you at
emotionally we are devastated we're
devastated the the family members
they're weeping they're crying the
little kids are terrified they can sense
that because we also have relatives
Sheltering there we are also have we
also have neighbors Sheltering there
there from Sha we also have relatives
who are injured and inside of the
hospital and we we can't uh uh get hold
of any of those people to make sure that
they are doing okay we can't go out we
can't reach the hospital because it's
also dangerous because the bombing after
the mass did not also stop Israel
several areas so this is devastating not
only to me because I live in Al because
you have fames and friends but to every
Palestinian every Pro Palestinian social
media is is is is is very angry
hopefully this is going to uh uh uh uh
put more pressure on on America that is
sending arms sending weapons on the
European Union that is aiding and aiting
the Israeli genocidal regime that is
Exterminating Palestinians reat while
we're speaking to you I just want to
explain that we're actually seeing some
Vision Live Vision coming from rala what
we do understand was that hundreds of
Palestinians had come out in support of
Gaza uh and against the Israeli War if
you will um is it somewhat comforting to
know that people are coming out in force
albeit they are being met by Security
Forces that's that's a a really really
disheartening scene but it's good that
the Palestinian authori is also uh
pushing to I I heard you just reporting
that abas is refusing to to meet with uh
with with with Biden uh this is good
hopefully the PA security forces would
stop Palestinian protesters and stop
attacking Palestinian protest or
harassing Palestinian resistance in the
West Bank what what's happening in the
West Bank is an extension to what's
happening in Gaza we speak about more
than 60 Palestinians killed in in in 10
days in the West Bank because we are a
whole people we are united together
they're not in solidarity with us they
are part of us and we are part of them
reat we um we've seen a humanitarian
catastrophe over the past 11 days was
there any sense that it could get even
worse I think yeah it is it's going to
get worse what's happening is literally
Israel pushing Palestinians in hundreds
and thousands of people in tiny small
places all around the Gaza Strip and
Israel is targeting those people we
speak about more than 3,000 now almost
4,000 Palestinians killed we speak about
1 ,500 Palestinian children and Israel
continues to bomb I'm telling you that I
I could he some bombing after the this
hideous massacr with Palestinian
congregating in areas with Israel
targeting un schools just this morning
six Palestinians
in in the middle area we were killed in
a un shelter six Palestinians targeted
by by Israel so there is no no no one is
safe no place is is safe not a hospital
not a mall not a church not even a
shelter that is uh uh providing refuge
for for Palestinian families especially
the one inly and
women well we appreciate you speaking to
us during what is a trying time refat
Aller a resident and editor of Gaza
writes back